docs: Investigate the way of enabling the Firebase Analytics (#1115)
platform-platform/monorepo: metrics/cli/docs/02_metrics_cli_firebase_analytics_investigation.md

Secondly, the Metrics CLI tool's goal is to deploy a Metrics project to Firebase from scratch, but for the newly created Firebase project, the Firebase Analytics is disabled. 

Therefore, the document's goal is to investigate solutions of enabling Firebase analytics for a newly created Firebase project.

## References
> Link to supporting documentation, GitHub tickets, etc.

- [Firebase Management API](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/api/reference/rest)
- [Google Analytics Management API](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/config/mgmt/v3/mgmtReference)
- [Compute engine API](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/rest/v1)
- [Google OAuth 2.0](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2)
- [gcloud CLI auth](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth)

# Analyze

## Process

The analysis begins with the selection of the best solution to enable Firebase Analytics, which we investigated.

The research concludes with a short description of the solutions, and a list of pros and cons of each.

### Manual

> The first solution is to show a warning prompt to a user before the deploying hosting, which told him to enable Firebase Analytics in the Firebase console to make it work for the current project. Also, the warning prompt should contain a link to the Firebase Analytics page in the Firebase console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first option is to show a warning prompt to a user before deploying the application to the hosting, which told him to enable Firebase Analytics in the Firebase console to make it available for the current project. Also, the warning prompt should contain a link to the Firebase Analytics page in the Firebase console.
```

> Let's describe the pros and cons of the manual solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's review the pros and cons of this option.
```
?

Pros:

- easy to implement;

> - easy to do from the user side (visit the printed link and click the `Enable Google Analytics` button).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- provides simple and understandable steps for users (visit the printed link and click the `Enable Google Analytics` button).
```
?

Cons:

> - not an automatic solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- does not allow us to deploy the application from the CIs since it requires user interaction 
```
What do you think?

### Using an API

The second solution is to use a [Firebase Management API](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/api/reference/rest) and a [Google Analytics Management API](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/config/mgmt/v3/mgmtReference).

The APIs contain the following required endpoints:
- [`Google analytics summaries`](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/config/mgmt/v3/mgmtReference/management/accountSummaries/list) to retrieve a Google analytics' account id;

> - [`Add google analytics`](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/api/reference/rest/v1beta1/projects/addGoogleAnalytics) to link the Google analytics with Firebase Analytics.

Reviewer: Would it be great to explain the purpose of these APIs and why do we need them? Also, I believe it would be great to explain the whole process of automated enabling in a bit more detail to make it more understandable for readers.

Here is a table, which describes how to get the token with a specific scope:

| Solution | **Description** | **Problems** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **[Configure OAuth 2.0](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158849) for the current GCloud project** | Allows us to get the token with required scope using OAuth 2.0 | The user should manually configure an [OAuth consent screen](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/10311615) |
| **Enable [compute engine API](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/rest/v1) in GCloud account** | Allow us to give a required scope for Gcloud project service accounts using the command described [here](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances). Then we can [authenticate](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/activate-service-account) using the service account with the required scope and [print the service account token](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/print-access-token). | The compute engine API requires enabling the Gcloud billing account, which a manually step only |

Let's describe the pros and cons of the API solution.

Pros:

> - perhaps in the future, it will be possible to enable the OAuth consent screen or billing account programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- provides an ability to ensure the Firebase Analytics is enabled, and we can proceed with the deployment process.
```

Cons: 

- complicated implementation;
- requires complicated steps from the user side (configure OAuth consent screen, configure billing account);

> - for now, it is not an automatic solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- does not allow automating the Firebase Analytics enabling process.
```

## Decision

> As we've analyzed above, the [API solution](#using-an-api) is too complicated for now. We should choose a described [manual solution](#manual) to enable Firebase Analytics.

Reviewer: I think we've chosen the manual option because the API does not allow us to automate the Firebase Analytics enabling process, and not because this solution is too complex.
